README.rst, before:

tmdbv3api
=========

|Build Status| |codecov|

A lightweight Python library for The Movie Database (TMDb) API. The TMDb API is a resource for developers to integrate movie, TV show and cast data along with posters or movie fan art. themoviedb.org is a free and community edited database.

Register an account: https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup

Check out the API documentation: https://developers.themoviedb.org/3/getting-started/introduction

Install
~~~~~~~

tmdbv3api is available on the Python Package Index (PyPI) at
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/tmdbv3api

You can install tmdbv3api using pip.

::

    $ pip install tmdbv3api

Usage
~~~~~

The first step is to initialize a TMDb object and set your API Key.

.. code:: python

    from tmdbv3api import TMDb
    tmdb = TMDb()
    tmdb.api_key = 'YOUR_API_KEY'

Alternatively, you can export your API key as an environment variable.

.. code:: bash

    $ export TMDB_API_KEY='YOUR_API_KEY'

Other configuration settings include defining your ``language`` and enabling ``debug`` mode, for example:

.. code:: python

    tmdb.language = 'en'
    tmdb.debug = True

Then to communicate with TMDb, create an instance of one of the objects
and call that instances methods. For example, to retrieve movie
recommendations for a given movie id:

.. code:: python

    from tmdbv3api import Movie

    movie = Movie()

    recommendations = movie.recommendations(movie_id=111)

    for recommendation in recommendations:
        print(recommendation.title)
        print(recommendation.overview)

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Get the list of popular movies on The Movie Database. This list
refreshes every day.

.. code:: python


    movie = Movie()
    popular = movie.popular()

    for p in popular:
        print(p.id)
        print(p.title)
        print(p.overview)
        print(p.poster_path)


Get the primary information about a movie.

.. code:: python

    m = movie.details(343611)

    print(m.title)
    print(m.overview)
    print(m.popularity)

Search for movies by title.

.. code:: python

    search = movie.search('Mad Max')

    for res in search:
        print(res.id)
        print(res.title)
        print(res.overview)
        print(res.poster_path)
        print(res.vote_average)

Get the similar movies for a specific movie id.

.. code:: python

    similar = movie.similar(777)

    for result in similar:
        print(result.title)
        print(result.overview)

Search for TV shows by title.

.. code:: python

    tv = TV()
    show = tv.search('Breaking Bad')

    for result in show:
        print(result.name)
        print(result.overview)

Get the similar TV shows for a specific tv id.

.. code:: python

    similar = tv.similar(1396)

    for show in similar:
        print(show.name)
        print(show.overview)

Get the details of TV season for a specific tv id.

.. code:: python

    season = Season()
    show_season = season.details(1396, 1)
    print(show_season.air_date)
    print(len(show_season.episodes))

Get the general person information for a specific id.

.. code:: python

    person = Person()
    p = person.details(12)

    print(p.name)
    print(p.biography)

Discover movies by different types of data like average rating, number
of votes, genres and certifications.

.. code:: python


    # What movies are in theatres?

    discover = Discover()
    movie = discover.discover_movies({
        'primary_release_date.gte': '2017-01-20',
        'primary_release_date.lte': '2017-01-25'
    })

    # What are the most popular movies?

    movie = discover.discover_movies({
        'sort_by': 'popularity.desc'
    })

    # What are the most popular kids movies?

    movie = discover.discover_movies({
        'certification_country': 'US',
        'certification.lte': 'G',
        'sort_by': 'popularity.desc'
    })

Discover TV shows by different types of data like average rating, number
of votes, genres, the network they aired on and air dates.

.. code:: python

    # What are the most popular TV shows?

    show = discover.discover_tv_shows({
        'sort_by': 'popularity.desc'
    })

    # What are the best dramas?

    show = discover.discover_tv_shows({
        'with_genres': 18,
        'sort_by': 'vote_average.desc',
        'vote_count.gte': 10
    })

Login to your account and add some movie recommendations to your TMDb watchlist.

.. code:: python

    from tmdbv3api import Account
    from tmdbv3api import Authentication
    from tmdbv3api import TMDb, Movie

    USERNAME = "YOUR_USERNAME"
    PASSWORD = "YOUR_PASSWORD"

    tmdb = TMDb()
    tmdb.api_key = "YOUR_API_KEY"

    auth = Authentication(username=USERNAME, password=PASSWORD)

    account = Account()
    details = account.details()

    print("You are logged in as %s. Your account ID is %s." % (details.username, details.id))
    print("This session expires at: %s" % auth.expires_at)

    movie = Movie()

    s = movie.search("Gangs of New York")
    first_result = s[0]
    recommendations = movie.recommendations(first_result.id)

    for recommendation in recommendations:
        print("Adding %s (%s) to watchlist." % (recommendation.title, recommendation.release_date))
        account.add_to_watchlist(details.id, recommendation.id, "movie")


Running Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run the tests via the command line. You must export your TMDb
API key as an environment variable. From the command line run:

.. code:: bash

    $ export TMDB_API_KEY='YOUR_API_KEY'

Then run:

.. code:: bash

    $ python -m unittest discover tests/


.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api
.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api

Commit message:

added searching person's id by its name

README.rst, after:

tmdbv3api
=========

|Build Status| |codecov|

A lightweight Python library for The Movie Database (TMDb) API. The TMDb API is a resource for developers to integrate movie, TV show and cast data along with posters or movie fan art. themoviedb.org is a free and community edited database.

Register an account: https://www.themoviedb.org/account/signup

Check out the API documentation: https://developers.themoviedb.org/3/getting-started/introduction

Install
~~~~~~~

tmdbv3api is available on the Python Package Index (PyPI) at
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/tmdbv3api

You can install tmdbv3api using setup.py.

Usage
~~~~~

The first step is to initialize a TMDb object and set your API Key.

.. code:: python

    from tmdbv3api import TMDb
    tmdb = TMDb()
    tmdb.api_key = 'YOUR_API_KEY'

Alternatively, you can export your API key as an environment variable.

.. code:: bash

    $ export TMDB_API_KEY='YOUR_API_KEY'

Other configuration settings include defining your ``language`` and enabling ``debug`` mode, for example:

.. code:: python

    tmdb.language = 'en'
    tmdb.debug = True

Then to communicate with TMDb, create an instance of one of the objects
and call that instances methods. For example, to retrieve movie
recommendations for a given movie id:

.. code:: python

    from tmdbv3api import Movie

    movie = Movie()

    recommendations = movie.recommendations(movie_id=111)

    for recommendation in recommendations:
        print(recommendation.title)
        print(recommendation.overview)

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Get the list of popular movies on The Movie Database. This list
refreshes every day.

.. code:: python


    movie = Movie()
    popular = movie.popular()

    for p in popular:
        print(p.id)
        print(p.title)
        print(p.overview)
        print(p.poster_path)


Get the primary information about a movie.

.. code:: python

    m = movie.details(343611)

    print(m.title)
    print(m.overview)
    print(m.popularity)

Search for movies by title.

.. code:: python

    search = movie.search('Mad Max')

    for res in search:
        print(res.id)
        print(res.title)
        print(res.overview)
        print(res.poster_path)
        print(res.vote_average)

Get the similar movies for a specific movie id.

.. code:: python

    similar = movie.similar(777)

    for result in similar:
        print(result.title)
        print(result.overview)

Search for TV shows by title.

.. code:: python

    tv = TV()
    show = tv.search('Breaking Bad')

    for result in show:
        print(result.name)
        print(result.overview)

Get the similar TV shows for a specific tv id.

.. code:: python

    similar = tv.similar(1396)

    for show in similar:
        print(show.name)
        print(show.overview)

Get the details of TV season for a specific tv id.

.. code:: python

    season = Season()
    show_season = season.details(1396, 1)
    print(show_season.air_date)
    print(len(show_season.episodes))

Get the general person information for a specific id.

.. code:: python

    person = Person()
    p = person.details(12)

    print(p.name)
    print(p.biography)
Get the person's id for the name:

.. code:: python
    person = Person()
    id = person.search_id("Brad Pitt")
    print(id)

Discover movies by different types of data like average rating, number
of votes, genres and certifications.

.. code:: python


    # What movies are in theatres?

    discover = Discover()
    movie = discover.discover_movies({
        'primary_release_date.gte': '2017-01-20',
        'primary_release_date.lte': '2017-01-25'
    })

    # What are the most popular movies?

    movie = discover.discover_movies({
        'sort_by': 'popularity.desc'
    })

    # What are the most popular kids movies?

    movie = discover.discover_movies({
        'certification_country': 'US',
        'certification.lte': 'G',
        'sort_by': 'popularity.desc'
    })

Discover TV shows by different types of data like average rating, number
of votes, genres, the network they aired on and air dates.

.. code:: python

    # What are the most popular TV shows?

    show = discover.discover_tv_shows({
        'sort_by': 'popularity.desc'
    })

    # What are the best dramas?

    show = discover.discover_tv_shows({
        'with_genres': 18,
        'sort_by': 'vote_average.desc',
        'vote_count.gte': 10
    })

Login to your account and add some movie recommendations to your TMDb watchlist.

.. code:: python

    from tmdbv3api import Account
    from tmdbv3api import Authentication
    from tmdbv3api import TMDb, Movie

    USERNAME = "YOUR_USERNAME"
    PASSWORD = "YOUR_PASSWORD"

    tmdb = TMDb()
    tmdb.api_key = "YOUR_API_KEY"

    auth = Authentication(username=USERNAME, password=PASSWORD)

    account = Account()
    details = account.details()

    print("You are logged in as %s. Your account ID is %s." % (details.username, details.id))
    print("This session expires at: %s" % auth.expires_at)

    movie = Movie()

    s = movie.search("Gangs of New York")
    first_result = s[0]
    recommendations = movie.recommendations(first_result.id)

    for recommendation in recommendations:
        print("Adding %s (%s) to watchlist." % (recommendation.title, recommendation.release_date))
        account.add_to_watchlist(details.id, recommendation.id, "movie")


Running Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run the tests via the command line. You must export your TMDb
API key as an environment variable. From the command line run:

.. code:: bash

    $ export TMDB_API_KEY='YOUR_API_KEY'

Then run:

.. code:: bash

    $ python -m unittest discover tests/


.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api
.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/AnthonyBloomer/tmdbv3api
